New in doc: July 2025 (#2861)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/resources/new_in_doc.md

Installation instructions for v4.6 are not needed in v5.0, or replaced by configuration instructions.

| 4.6                                                                                                              | 5.0                                                                                                |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Install AI Actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/ai_actions/install_ai_actions/)                                 | [Configure AI Actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/ai_actions/configure_ai_actions/)               |
| [Install Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/discounts/install_discounts/)                                    | [Customize Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/discounts/configure_discounts/) directly         |
| [Date and time attributes: installation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#installation) | [Date and time attributes: usage](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#usage) |

> | Not released yet                                                                                                 | [Symbol attribute](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/symbol_attribute_type/)              |

Author: 4.6.22

#2867 

https://ez-systems-developer-documentation--2867.com.readthedocs.build/en/2867/pim/attributes/symbol_attribute_type/#installation

```suggestion
| 4.6                                                                                                              | 5.0                                                                                                |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Install AI Actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/ai_actions/install_ai_actions/)                                 | [Configure AI Actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/ai_actions/configure_ai_actions/)               |
| [Install Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/discounts/install_discounts/)                                    | [Customize Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/discounts/configure_discounts/) directly         |
| [Date and time attributes: Installation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#installation) | [Date and time attributes: Usage](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#usage) |
| [Symbol attribute: Installation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/pim/attributes/symbol_attribute_type/#installation) | [Symbol attribute](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/symbol_attribute_type/)              |
```

Author: Done in a1a8c1f0c3e02d8a8486ba470605965338f56945 with singular "Date and time attribute"

| [Install Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/discounts/install_discounts/)                                    | [Customize Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/discounts/configure_discounts/) directly         |
| [Date and time attributes: installation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#installation) | [Date and time attributes: usage](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#usage) |
| Not released yet                                                                                                 | [Symbol attribute](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/symbol_attribute_type/)              |

#### PHP API

Documentation examples and [PHP API Reference](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/) have been updated for v5.0.
You can use [`ibexa/rector`](https://github.com/ibexa/rector#readme) package that allows to maintain your custom PHP code quality.
And consult the [Ibexa DXP v5.0 renames, deprecations and removals](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0_deprecations/).

> Major addition to the PHP API Reference  are [`Ibexa\Contracts\Collaboration`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-collaboration.html [collaboration framework](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#collaboration) and [`Ibexa\Contracts\Share`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-share.html) namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Major additions to the PHP API Reference are [`Ibexa\Contracts\Collaboration`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-collaboration.html) and [`Ibexa\Contracts\Share`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-share.html) namespaces, the bulding blocks for the [collaboration framework](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#collaboration).
```

#### REST API

Layout for [v5.0 REST API Reference](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html) is now changed.

> As [Ibexa DXP 5.0 is OpenAPI compliant](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_usage/#openapi-support), the specification output from the platform is passed to [Redocly CLI](https://redocly.com/docs/cli) to generate the online reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As [Ibexa DXP 5.0 is OpenAPI compliant](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_usage/#openapi-support), the specification output is used to generate the online reference.
```
I'd treat Redocly usage as an implementation detail

This page contains recent highlights and notable changes in [[= product_name =]] documentation.

## July 2025

### v5.0.0

> [Ibexa DXP v5.0.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#ibexa-dxp-v500) is out!
> So, the [Ibexa DXP 5.0 LTS documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/) is available as well.
> Yes, [5.0 is an LTS](https://www.ibexa.co/blog/continuous-innovation-how-ibexa-dxp-s-lifecycle-enhances-feature-delivery)!

Author: This exitation doesn't look good as flat text.

```suggestion
[Ibexa DXP v5.0.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#ibexa-dxp-v500) is available,
accompagned by [5.0 documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/).
Ibexa DXP 5.0 LTS benefits of the [Long-Term Support](https://www.ibexa.co/blog/continuous-innovation-how-ibexa-dxp-s-lifecycle-enhances-feature-delivery).
```

This page contains recent highlights and notable changes in [[= product_name =]] documentation.

## July 2025

### v5.0.0

> [Ibexa DXP v5.0.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#ibexa-dxp-v500) is available,
> accompanied by [5.0 documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Ibexa DXP v5.0.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#ibexa-dxp-v500) is available, accompanied by [5.0 documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/).
```

> [Ibexa DXP v5.0.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#ibexa-dxp-v500) is available,
> accompanied by [5.0 documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Ibexa DXP v5.0.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#ibexa-dxp-v500) is now available, accompanied by [v5.0 documentation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/).
```

Ibexa DXP 5.0 LTS benefits of the [Long-Term Support](https://www.ibexa.co/blog/continuous-innovation-how-ibexa-dxp-s-lifecycle-enhances-feature-delivery).

See how to [update from 4.6 to 5.0](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/update_and_migration/from_4.6/update_to_5.0/).

#### LTS Updates

> 4.6's LTS Updates are features included out of the box in 5.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LTS Updates from v4.6 are included out of the box in v5.0 as features.
```

> The previous 4.6 installation instructions are, in 5.0, unneeded or replaced by configuration instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installation instructions for v4.6 are not needed in v5.0, or replaced by configuration instructions.
```

|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Install AI Actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/ai_actions/install_ai_actions/)                                 | [Configure AI Actions](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/ai_actions/configure_ai_actions/)               |
| [Install Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/discounts/install_discounts/)                                    | [Customize Discounts](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/discounts/configure_discounts/) directly         |
| [Date and time attributes: installation](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/4.6/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#installation) | [Date and time attributes: usage](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/date_and_time/#usage) |
| Not released yet                                                                                                 | [Symbol attribute](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/pim/attributes/symbol_attribute_type/)              |

#### PHP API

> Documentation examples and [PHP API Reference](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/) have been updated for 5.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Documentation examples and [PHP API Reference](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/) have been updated for v5.0.
```

> You can use [`ibexa/rector`](https://github.com/ibexa/rector#readme) package to help yourself maintain your custom PHP code quality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use [`ibexa/rector`](https://github.com/ibexa/rector#readme) package that allows to maintain your custom PHP code quality.
```

> And consult the [Ibexa DXP v5.0 renames, deprecations and removals](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0_deprecations/).

Reviewer 2: Please try to rewrite. Sentence sounds incomplete, shouldn't start with "And..."
```suggestion
And consult the [Ibexa DXP v5.0 renames, deprecations and removals](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0_deprecations/).
```

Author: @julitafalcondusza ?
```suggestion
Consult the [Ibexa DXP v5.0 renames, deprecations and removals](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0_deprecations/) to learn more about the changes.
```

> Major addition to the PHP API Reference is the [collaboration framework](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#collaboration)'s
> [`Ibexa\Contracts\Collaboration`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-collaboration.html)
> and [`Ibexa\Contracts\Share`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-share.html) namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Major addition to the PHP API Reference  are [`Ibexa\Contracts\Collaboration`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-collaboration.html [collaboration framework](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0/#collaboration) and [`Ibexa\Contracts\Share`](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/php_api/php_api_reference/namespaces/ibexa-contracts-share.html) namespaces.
```

#### REST API

> The [5.0's REST API Reference](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html) layout changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Layout for [v5.0 REST API Reference](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html) is now changed.
```

> As [Ibexa DXP 5.0 is OpenAPI compliant](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_usage/#openapi-support),
> the specification output from the platform is passed to [Redocly CLI](https://redocly.com/docs/cli) to generate the online reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As [Ibexa DXP 5.0 is OpenAPI compliant](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/api/rest_api/rest_api_usage/#openapi-support), the specification output from the platform is passed to [Redocly CLI](https://redocly.com/docs/cli) to generate the online reference.
```

> You can also consult the documentation directly on your development installations at `/api/ibexa/v2/doc`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also check the documentation directly on your development installations at `/api/ibexa/v2/doc`.
```
